Connected peers (#69)
AAU-Dat/P9-ZKP: report/src/sections/02-background.tex

In Ethereum, it works by choosing block proposers from a set of validators based on the amount of cryptocurrency they have staked in the blockchain.
All other validators are then given the role of confirming this block, adding it to the canonical chain.

The proposers get rewarded for creating a valid block, and the validators get rewarded for confirming the block.
Block proposing happens within epochs of 32 blocks, and for each block a validator is selected as a proposer by the protocol.
The proposer is chosen through a random process weighted by the amount of ether the validator has staked.
To simulate this random selection, Etheruem uses the publicly available \gls{randao} algorithm.

A block needs to be proposed by the designated proposer for the slot and confirmed by other validators within the 12-second time limit of the slot.
If a fork happens, the validators have to choose which fork to follow.
This is done by using the \gls{lmd-ghost}~\cite{EthereumProof-of-stakePoS} algorithm which chooses the fork with the greatest weight of attestations in its history.

\subsection{Subnets}\label{subsec:subnets}
The Ethereum network is split up into smaller networks called subnets.

> The nodes in the network are split into a total of 64 subnets and an additional subnet for attestation aggregates with each node subscribing to at least two subnets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nodes in the network are split into a total of 64 subnets and an additional subnet for attestation aggregates with each node subscribing to two subnets as default.
```

Being subscribed to a subnet is also referred to as being backbone of a subnet.

These subnets are used to help with the scalability of the network by distributing the load of messages.

> Most often, messages are sent between nodes in the same subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most messages are sent between nodes in the same subnet.
```

This lessens the load of a node, as it will receive $\frac{2}{64}$ of all messages in the blockchain instead of all messages.

Nodes are not able to be a peer with all nodes in a subnet.
Hence, the peers a node can reach within the same subnet are called its fanout~\cite{heimbach2024deanonymizingethereumvalidatorsp2p}.

Within a subnet, nodes choose a subset of peers in the same subnet to share its messages with.
Choosing which nodes are a part of this subset is done based on a peer score determined by a peer's performance.
Nodes send all messages they receive within a subnet to these best-performing peers.

\subsection{Attestations}\label{subsec:attestations}
Each epoch, a validator is expected to broadcast what is called an attestation~\cite{attestations}.
The overall purpose of this message is to make sure that validators agree on the canonical chain.

> All attestations are sent to a single given subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An attestation is sent by its author to only a single subnet.
Afterwards, it will naturally be broadcasted to other parts of the network by peers in that subnet
```

> A single validator is assigned by the protocol to a single slot each epoch, where they must publish their attestation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single validator is assigned by the block chain protocol to a single slot each epoch, where they must publish their attestation.
```
